this video is the first video in a
series of tutorials about cinematography
and photorealism and in this first
episode we're going to take a look at my
favorite lighting setup it's a very
simple one-point lighting setup we're
going to build this entire scene and
then i'm going to talk about things i
think are important for cinematography
[Music]
so here we are in blender version 3.1
and we're going to start off by deleting
everything and let's go to mxaml we're
going to use this model called why bot
let me just disable myself here so you
can see we are choosing the look around
animation yeah so this is a cool
animation and you can increase the
character arm space just a little bit
because it's clipping
so let's go ahead and click download and
fbx is good and just download so in
blender let's go f4 import fbx and then
find your motion capture
import so here you can see you have the
animated version in blender i realize
i'm using this model for everything
nowadays but i just really like it let's
create a ground plane so shift a let's
create a plane
let's scale this up a little bit and
let's go to edit mode by pressing tab
and you can click and drag and select
these two vertices behind here and let's
press e to extrude on the z-axis
so now we want to make this into a
smooth studio backdrop so let's go back
to object mode and let's go to modifier
properties
add modifier bevel and then you can just
increase the amount of this
just go crazy and increase the segments
let's move this back a little bit
perfect and then you can see all these
little lines so we want to right click
and set the shading to smooth so now we
have a smooth studio backdrop let's
actually scale this up on the x axis a
little bit
and now let's create our camera shift a
and let's create a camera and i think
this angle is quite good so let's go
view align view align active camera to
view so now our camera will see what we
are seeing and you can press g to move
the camera and then let's press z two
times
you can move it back a little bit on the
local z-axis
let's enable the cycles render engine
let's go to render properties and set
the render engine to cycles i'm going to
show something cool i got the windows
power toys so you can do like this
press ctrl two times and you can do this
so we're going to go to the render view
boom
is that annoying or is it good i don't
know so we're in a rendered view and now
you can see just this shadow
is just automatically appearing here and
this is just the ambient occlusion that
just works really nice in cycles you can
see with this ambient occlusion that
this character is actually levitating a
little bit so let's select the bones and
then let's move it a little bit down on
the z-axis
it looks like it's standing on the
ground and then if you like you can just
go ahead and hide the bones because we
don't need them anymore so just select
the armature and press h to hide by the
way if you hold down z you can do this
pi menu to just see render view right
away so you can just press z and drag up
which is a really fast way to go to
render view or solid or material okay so
now we're done with the boring part
let's start focus on the lighting and i
want you to ask yourself why are we
adding light in this scene are we adding
light because it's too dark
so we just need to see what's happening
so here is an interesting mindset that i
would recommend that you try instead of
thinking that i need to illuminate my
scene therefore i'm adding a light try
and think my scene needs shadows so i
can emphasize the shape of this object
and once you start thinking that it's
incredibly easy to just place the light
so let's first start with the first
mindset my scene is too dark i need to
add some light so let's go shift a and
let's add a point light because that's
going to create light in all directions
which is good right we want this to be
brighter so let's press g and move this
over here and let's right click and
adjust the light power so now you can
see
we are getting more light in our scene
and that's good right we wanted to
illuminate our object so here's how the
other mindset comes into play
let's view this from the side by
pressing this widget and minus x let's
reset the position of the light by
pressing alt g
and now let's try and move this so that
it creates as much shadow as possible
and i want to see shadows here in the
chest area and i want to see shadows in
the biceps area on the stomach by the
way i forgot about this this model is a
little bit weird that it has this fake
sharpening so if you press tab to go to
edit mode you can press ctrl e and clear
sharp from vertices so now it doesn't
have any fake sharpness anymore and we
can start really focus on the geometry
here so first of all i think this part
is way too flat i can't really see
what's happening on this chest but if we
have the mindset that we are going to
add shadows instead let's try and move
the light on the y-axis
and a little bit on the z-axis
we're placing the light just above our
character it's much easier to see and
understand the shape of this character
when you have these shadows
that are emphasizing the shape of the
object so i want you to keep this in
mind when you're adding lights to your
scene don't try and illuminate your
scene because it's too dark try and
place the shadows strategically so you
can emphasize the shapes of your object
okay so we're almost there this is
almost my favorite lighting setup let's
go to object layer properties
and let's select the light and let's set
the type of light to be an area light
and now you can see we get a really hard
shadow and that is because it's a
smaller light so you can right click and
increase the light size
okay so now instead of watching this in
3d and moving the camera all the way
around all the time i want to watch this
from the camera perspective while i do
the changes so let's hold down z and set
this to solid view again and let's right
click on this line and set it to
vertical split
let's go here and you can press t to get
rid of this menu and now let's press the
camera icon
and then you can zoom in and
let's turn off the overlays which is alt
shift z and also if you think this
little button is annoying you can go to
the gizmos and turn off look at so now
let's set this to be the rendered view
okay so the scene is too bright let's
right click on the light and adjust the
light power let's lower it a little bit
let's select the backdrop select
material properties and let's add a new
material backdrop and let's just lower
the base color
so this doesn't really have anything to
do with the lighting i just
i just like it okay so i want to
increase the contrast in our scene a
little bit so let's go to the world
properties and let's set the strength to
zero so this basically turns off the
light in our world now let's go back to
camera view and now i want to show you
something that is a problem with this
area light select the air light right
click and increase the power
you see this
there's this shadow this line here at
the side is because the area light is
only emitting in 180 degrees this is
basically how the camera sees it's going
to see all the way up here and this line
is going to be here so an easy way to
fix this is to select this light and
just rotate it
let's turn on the brightness
but now the problem is that i think this
is getting too flat again so the
lighting that i almost always end up
with is to move it
just behind so now you can see we're
getting these really beautiful soft
shadows on the chest for example and you
can see the biceps are being more
visible and we get this really beautiful
highlight on the shoulders and that's
the look i really like and you might
notice there are some artifacts here on
the stomach and hair on the
also stomach i don't really know what
this character is to get rid of this you
can add a subdivision surface modifier
so let's just select this geometry and
press ctrl 1 this automatically adds a
subdivision surface modifier and in the
modifier properties you can set it to
render one and viewport one if you like
so let's do a still render and see what
it looks like render properties i'm
going to lower my amount of samples and
i'll just do a still render okay nice i
think this is looking quite smooth i
really like this lighting setup but i
don't know why i'm liking it
and that's okay you can like stuff and
don't know why you like it but in some
cases it can be extremely beneficial to
try and figure out what did we do
correctly here that can be applied in
other scenarios what if you want to
recreate this lighting setup for
everything because as i said
i use this for almost 80 of my work so
let's do some drawing first let's draw
the point of view so this is our camera
this is our focal plane
this is our point of interest let's give
this an eye and this is our background
which looks like this and it's like a
picture from the mountain
and then if you like you could also have
like a foreground element but we don't
do that so let's just not worry about
that right now so this is basically what
we have created in this scene we're
going to break down what the light is
doing here and this is going to make it
incredibly easy to create the same type
of lighting in other scenes let's also
add space
this boop
so here you can see we have our point of
view we have our point of interest and
we have our background and this can be
divided into two parts this is often
referred to as outside
and this part is often referred to as
inside so when people talk about
lighting from the outside they are
talking about what's happening between
the background and the point of interest
it's this area and the next time you are
watching a movie
on the cinema which is a movie that
hopefully has cinematic lighting since
it at the cinema you'll notice that
there is a very big chance that the
light is placed in the outside so this
is almost like a gradient where over
here it's mysterious and here it's being
revealed
let's try and see if this works so i'm
going to select the light and just press
g and move it around and i move it
further into the outside
so now this character is completely lit
from the outside and we end up with only
a silhouette and it's looking quite
mysterious and then we closer we get
you can see
now we're lighting it from the inside
and it's being revealed
so if you were to place the light right
here and point it towards the character
now this looks similar to when you're
driving the car at night and your
flashlights are lighting up deer in the
road
and you can see the wet fur and you can
see the teeth and you can see it like
if you were to say that that lighting is
ugly i would agree with you but on the
contrary let's say you're in a cave we
want to make this into a point light
this is you and then the cave goes like
this this is the opening of the cave so
you're inside the cave this
would fit really well with a narrative
that is mysterious so now you can see
that when the light is coming from here
you can only see a silhouette but if
instead the cave is the other way
like this so it's closed here and this
is the opening of the cave the sun is
coming from outside the cave
and you can see that you are revealing
everything that's inside the cave
i'm not sure
if this makes any sense at all
okay i'm getting really excited about
this
i'm almost
i think i'm just really excited to draw
on this tablet
okay yeah let's let's get back to earth
i think so to summarize this and to
recap what we've done today we have
created a large light source
above our point of interest and we have
learned that if we place our light
closer to the background and further
away from the point of interest we are
creating something that is more
mysterious because we are losing
information and we are really playing
with the shadows and then if we choose
to place our light between the point of
interest and the point of view like this
now you can see that all is being
revealed and we have a flat lighting so
this can be used if you want to reveal
everything and just show that there are
no secrets here so to get back to my
favorite lighting setup it's just behind
the point of interest
just
right here
because then you get a little bit of
light rays here and you also
get bounce light on the ground and then
up again
and this goes a little bit like this
and is really powerful in cycles you can
try this same lighting setup in eevee
and you'll quickly notice that the
bounce light in cycles is doing a lot of
the heavy lifting here and then the
majority of the light comes here and
lands smoothly on the shoulder and on
the ground and it's also bouncing like
this these are bouncing and i think this
the shoulder light is the most beautiful
about this setup it falls off really
nicely and it looks
it looks like a cape of light
oh by the way we totally forgot but this
is actually still animated so you can
press play and you can see that
it's an actually mocap animation so i'll
guess how to render it out and see what
it looks like so that's my favorite
lighting setup i will leave the blend
file in the description i'm not going to
be allowed to distribute this mocap
model but you can just download it from
exam and import it to the scene and it
should be placed perfectly where it's
right now and if you want to try and
recreate it i highly recommend that you
just try and use one light source
because that just keeps things so much
simpler as i said i'm using this for
almost everything nowadays it's just one
big light source and then it's often a
large area plane tilted so it won't
create any ugly shadows on the
background especially when using a
wide-angle lens this this monitor is
probably going to wiggle a little bit i
don't have a really big monitor it's
just this is such a wide-angle lens so
if you watched any tutorials on this
channel you might have noticed by now
that there is a difference between the
tutorial result
and the sort of cinematic that i show at
the end and the reason for this is super
simple every time i record a tutorial i
just get so excited about the technique
that i'm about to show everyone that
i just spend a couple of days
just
doing whatever i can to make people
understand how cool it is you know and
make these cinematic shots and my goal
is to inspire with this to show off the
technique but i also understand it can
be quite frustrating to not get to learn
everything in the same video so if you
like this video it's the first episode
in a new tutorial series i'm working on
called virtual cinematography where
we'll be doing virtual cinematography
it's a topic i'm just really really
excited about the next episode is going
to be about barrel distortion and fish
eye lenses so subscribe if you want to
see that thanks for watching
[Music]
you